In this video series we will explore
using the Intersection Observer to lazy
load images.
When someone loads a web page there's a
good chance that it's the wrong page or
they don't want to see the entire page.
If this page has lots of images and we
load them all up front we burn a lot of
data transferring images that will never
be seen.
What needs to happen is that we load the
images at the top of the page,
those that are showing in the viewport,
then we wait for the user to scroll down
to indicate they want to see more of our
page,
then we load the images just in time.
In this example we can see that the page
initially loads with 93 requests.
As we scroll down the page and encounter
more images we see this number increase
and of course the data transferred
increases as well.
On pages that have a large number of
images we can see how this would really
save on data transfer if the user did
not want to see all of these cool images.
For this tutorial I have created eight
images and cropped them all to 300 by
300 pixels.
These jpeg images are compressed at 50
percent
and the sizes are between 40 kilobytes
and 76 kilobytes.
In addition, I created a small
placeholder PNG image that's only 12
kilobytes.
This image will be loaded as a
placeholder for the other eight images
making the initial page load extremely
small.
Then as we scroll down the page the
images are loaded one at a time.
You can see here that only the first
three beach images have been loaded in
our Network tab.
Our transfer data is 175 kilobytes.
After scrolling all the way to the
bottom of the page, all the images have
been loaded and the data transfer has
increased to 427 kilobytes.
I will be demonstrating a simplified
version of the intersection Observer as
found in the mdn documentation.
My goal is that when you are finished,
you can explain every line of code.
The HTML is pretty basic in fact the
only thing that we care about for this
tutorial is line is 14-21 which are
image links.
Notice that I have included the width
and height on these image tags.
This became important in 2019 when
browsers started using these numbers as
a ratio to load a responsive image and
lay out the page.
This prevents page Jank which is where
the contents jump around as the images
are being loaded.
These eight image tags have the same
source, set to display the same
placeholder image.
Each one also has a data source which
does not display in the browser
when this page loads initially it will
show eight placeholder images.
The first task of our JavaScript is to
create a custom variable that contains a
list of all the image tags that have an
attribute of data source.
We will use QuerySelectorAll to get
the matches on the page. If we render
this list to the console it looks like
this.
I've divided this script into five
sections in hopes that we can review
each one and you'll better understand
how they work together.
We've just reviewed the purpose of line
one now, let's look at the rest of the
script.
Lines 9 through 15 are the heart of the
Intersection Observer. It can be
configured to report how elements
interact with each other
and we do that in a configuration... here
on line three through seven. These
options are then fed into the
Intersection Observer as options down
here on line 15.
We will demonstrate what each one of
these does when we look at some example
code.
Line 23 takes my list of images and
feeds each one into my Observer so that
each one can be tracked. In this example
there will be eight image tags being
watched,
Lines 10 through 14 loops through each of
the items being tracked.
If it finds an item that is intersecting,
which means it has entered or exited the
viewport, then it calls the 'load image'
function down here on line 17-21.
The load image function, line 17, then
sets the image source to the path used
in the data source which we can see up
here in the HTML.
Now that the image source has the
correct path to a real image, we no
longer need the data source. So line 20
removes the data source from the image
tag.
Now that the image has loaded we no
longer need to watch to see if that one
comes into view, so line 21 tells the
Intersection Observer not to watch that
particular image tag anymore.
That's all there is to it!
Now let's jump into a code editor and
look at each of these sections in
operation.